>> You are listening to the
self-esteem mind talk audio.
In a moment the hypnosis will
begin, but before it does,
I'd like to remind you that
the following audio contains
powerful hypnotic
suggestions that
aim to help you get into a
deep state of relaxation.
So please be sure that wherever
you're listening to this audio
you're in a safe and
comfortable place
free from distractions, where
you can fully relax and let go.
Please don't listen to this
if you're driving or operating
machinery.
Should there be an emergency,
your subconscious mind
will alert you, and you'll
easily come out of hypnosis.
But right now there's
nothing at all
that you need to do, apart
from close your eyes,
relax, lie back, and
let go, and really enjoy
those peaceful feelings and all
the benefits that come with it.
Make yourself as
comfortable as possible
and concentrate on
the sound of my voice.
And begin by drawing in
a long, slow, deep breath
in through your nose.
Hold the breath for a moment.
And now slightly open your
mouth and release all the air
from your body in a
long, low, deep sigh
and relax, allowing your
lungs to naturally deflate
as your body sinks into
a gentle relaxation nap.
And you can release any tension.
Relax, and let go as I
guide you through a journey
of relaxation, a journey that
you will find very beneficial
for your overall well-being.
You're going to start
this calming experience
by first relaxing your
whole body-mind system.
And it's true to say that the
simple act of relaxing the body
and mind has a positive knock-on
effect, because how you think
determines you feel.
And how you feel influences
the world around you.
And how you choose
to think today
affects your decisions
from here on in.
So to make my
assurances reality,
let's begin by
focusing your attention
at the very top of your head.
Tension often starts at
the scalp and the neck.
So mentally and physically
allow all the muscles
around the top of your
head to relax now,
letting all the
tension simply dissolve
as you start to tune into
your body-mind system.
Just let any tension you may
be holding to release that.
Allow your brain to relax.
The left and the right lobes
of the brain just releasing.
Such a simple thought, yet so
profound and so significant,
just letting go completely.
Drifting further
and further down.
Nobody wanting anything.
Nobody needing anything.
This is your time to relax.
Taking the relaxation
into the face
now, allowing all of your
facial muscles to feel loose.
Feel your brow relaxing,
your forehead smoothing out,
the back of your eyes relaxing.
Tiny muscles around your
eyes and eyelids down
into your cheeks and into
your jaw muscles just
releasing and letting go.
Allowing your
tongue to fall away
from the roof of your mouth.
And should you find you need
to swallow, just do that
now and drift down and
down, deeper and deeper
into blissful relaxation.
The more you physically
relax, the more
you can mentally relax.
And when you can
mentally relax, you
can think much more clearly.
And when you think more clearly,
your life becomes clearer.
You make better decisions.
And you're much more in
control of your days.
So noticing now how
your neck feels,
relaxing all of your muscles,
letting go of the strain,
letting go of the tension.
Allow the tension that you may
be holding in your shoulder
to go now.
Feel the shoulders,
both of them,
sinking into the
frame of your body.
Feel your neck lengthen
as you do this.
Feel or imagine all your
cares and worries just
rolling off your shoulders now
as you take the relaxation down
now into the tops of your
arms, letting any tension you
may be holding just drain away.
And as your awareness floats
down through your upper arms
into your elbows, all the
muscles in your forearms
relax, right down to your
wrists, and into your hands,
and way down into the very tips
of your fingers and thumbs.
Your arms are feeling so heavy.
Your body is so comfortable.
Nothing whatsoever to
do, but just relax,
and enjoy this feeling
of total release now.
As you let go of all the
tension in those muscles,
you may experience them becoming
calmer and gently releasing.
Just tune into the feeling
of simply letting go.
As you become aware
of your breathing,
notice that you're now
breathing steadily and slowly,
rhythmically.
And with each exhale,
you feel yourself
just relaxing even
more deeply, allowing
any tension in the chest area
now to simply drain away,
letting go completely
and totally.
Bring awareness into
your stomach now.
And let all your
tummy muscles relax.
And as you do, I
want you to imagine
a ball of sunlight passing
down from the top of your head
down through your face, your
throat, and into your stomach.
Visualize this healing
energy passing down
through your throat, and
chest, and into your stomach.
So see and feel the sunlight
swirling and rotating.
And as the light glows, it
warms, and soothes, and heals.
And you release, and relax, and
drift down, and further down.
And in your imagination,
you send the sunlight out
now to every nerve cell,
bone, muscle, fiber,
and system of the body.
See it flowing through
the bloodstream.
Leave the light there.
It knows what to do.
As you take the relaxation
round into your back muscles,
and from your back muscles,
it relaxes those muscles
either side of the spine.
Releasing, relaxing,
and just letting
go now, deeper and deeper now.
As you relax your waist and
the muscles of your low stomach
and down into the
pelvic area all the way
down through the
large thigh muscles,
down through your knees,
your shins, and your calves.
Just allow all those areas of
the body to relax and let go.
You're so relaxed, so
heavy, so comfortable.
And now tune into that
comfortable feeling
as you think on down to your
ankles, and to your feet,
and right down to the
very tips of your toes.
All the muscles of your body
now are so beautifully relaxed.
And you feel very heavy
and very comfortable.
And you're feeling centered and
relaxed, and fully in control.
If there are any
areas of your body
that still feel
tight and tense, you
find that you can relax them
simply by giving yourself
permission to do so.
And you can now go even deeper
as I count down from 8 to 0.
And with every number you
feel yourself drifting further
into blissful relaxation.
So 8, 7, 6, 5.
Deeper now.
4, 3, 2, 1, and 0.
Deeply relaxed, letting go
of all the cares and worries,
all the tension, and pressure,
and stresses, and strains.
Let them all ease from your
body, and ease from your mind,
and allow yourself to drift
down into a deeper and blissful
state of creative relaxation.
Now, in your
imagination, I'd like
you to imagine that
you're standing
on the top of a hill
on a beautiful island.
And it's a lovely
warm summer's day.
There's a clear blue sky,
not a cloud in sight.
And the temperature is
just how you like it.
You can feel the gentle
warmth of the sun on your head
and shoulders.
And you can hear
the sounds of nature
all around you, making you
feel even more relaxed.
The long grass in the
meadow below sways slightly.
And you can see a
winding path that
disappears into a
small apple orchard
just at the bottom of the hill.
And just beyond the orchard,
you can see the sea.
The sunlight darting off
the tops of the waves.
The whole ocean
shimmering and sparkling.
You begin to move easily
down the path now,
noticing the grass
springing under your feet,
pushing you encouragingly
towards your destination.
And you catch the faint smell
of sea air in the breeze
as you get closer to the
ocean as you stroll down,
down the winding path.
And you move
smoothly and easily.
And you feel relaxed, and
centered, and fully in control.
And you're becoming aware now,
a growing calm within you.
You stop to look at the
beautiful flowers growing
each side of the path, their
colors so vivid and bright.
And you stand there for a
moment taking in the view.
A feeling of happiness flows
through you, continuing down.
You're aware now of a deep sense
of calmness and tranquility,
right from the top of your
head to the tips of your toes,
renewing your energy,
feeling wonderful.
As you walk, you find yourself
almost floating as though
in a dream down to the orchard.
You move with such ease,
with no effort whatsoever.
And in no time,
you find yourself
drifting through
the fruit trees with
the lush, cool, green foliage
forming a canopy overhead.
And you see the
sunlight glittering
through the branches.
And as you stand there, you
feel the glittering sunlight
on your face and neck.
And you feel and
experience it vibrating
throughout your entire
body-mind system.
And as the sunlight moves, it
glows, and warms, and soothes,
and heals your body and mind.
And you release, and relax,
and move down, and down,
taking in another deep breath,
relaxing even more now.
You can hear the
sound of the ocean
as you move nearer and nearer.
And with every
step you take, you
feel more relaxed
and more calm as you
follow that winding path
that leads you downwards.
You turn a corner.
And to your delight,
you find yourself
on a beautiful deserted beach.
The beach sweeping away into
a small bay in front of me.
And the ocean is a striking
turquoise blue, pure and clear.
And you can feel the warm
sand underneath your shoes.
And you take your shoes off.
And you start walking
lazily across the beach
to the water's edge.
You feel the sand
beneath your feet.
And you feel the
sand change from cool
to moist beneath your feet as
you wander along the shoreline.
As you turn around,
you start to walk up
the beach towards
a grassy mound.
And as you walk up slowly, you
take in the smell of the ocean.
And you hear the
sound of the water
hissing over the warm sand.
You reach the mound
now, and you sit down,
making yourself comfortable.
And as you gaze out across
the breathtaking scene,
you watch the waves roll
in and roll out again,
rhythmically in and out again.
You play with the sand
through your fingers,
noticing just how good you feel.
So relaxed now.
So relaxed that you've opened
up your subconscious mind.
And you're ready to start
making those changes you wanted
to make once and for all.
As you continue to
listen to this mind talk,
you can enjoy a
process of change
with regards to your self-image.
And you can begin
to make changes
on a subconscious
level, which will then
start to show in your body
language and behavior.
So imagine yourself now standing
in front of a large window.
And see yourself now looking
in through the window.
And you see someone
that you know loves you.
You may not recognize
that person.
All you know is
that they love you
deeply for the wonderful
person that you are.
You may be curious about how
you know that they love you.
What do they do to demonstrate
that they love you?
How do they behave?
What do they think?
How do they talk?
How do they show
that they love you?
You think about all the
things they love about you--
your personality
traits, the things
you have done for others, the
achievements you have made,
the changes you have
made in your life,
the way you treat others.
The person that you
see through the window
loves you for who you are.
And it feels good.
You may wonder what it would
be like to become that person,
to become that person
who is so loved no matter
what's happened in the past.
And so now see yourself
within that person.
You are now that person
who loves you so much.
And as you begin to see the
world through that person's
eyes, you can start to
catch a glimpse of yourself,
and begin to see
that you over there
through the eyes
of the person that
loves you, seeing what
they see that makes
them love you so much.
You can feel all the things that
this person loves about you,
all your personality traits, the
things you've done for others,
the achievements you've
made, the changes you've
made in your life, the
way you treat others.
And the person that you
see through the window
loves you for who you
are, and it feels good.
I would like you now to think
about a beautiful garden.
And as you look at the grass
in the beautiful garden,
you'll notice that the grass
is neat, and even looks
absolutely perfect.
You take a step closer.
And you bend down to take
a closer look at the grass.
And you notice that
each blade of grass
is completely different.
Yet all of the blades
together share a similarity,
just like every single person on
the planet shares a similarity.
And yet, we're all unique
and different in our own way.
You're absolutely
unique to everyone else.
And you have so many positive
qualities and aspects
that others like about you.
And you focus on how
you believe in yourself,
and you believe in
what you can do.
Just like that person you saw
who loves you for who you are.
All your different
personality traits,
there may be some you
don't quite like as much.
But there will be
some that others love.
And you enjoy that
feeling of stepping
into someone else's
shoes and looking
at yourself from the outside.
You notice that actually
you are interesting.
You are fun.
You are kind and caring.
And all of these
things lead to people
wanting to be around you.
And the more you realize this,
the more your confidence grows.
The more people become
interested in you,
and in turn, again,
your confidence
grows stronger and
stronger again.
And you know that you can't be
confident that you'll always
succeed, of course.
But you can be confident that
you'll always do your best.
And that is enough.
You've done so much in
your life that you probably
didn't spend much time thinking
about, and congratulating
yourself about all that you've
done, all that you've achieved,
and the positive
impact that you've
had on the lives of others.
And so whilst you listen
to this, or at a time when
you have a moment
to sit and think,
you can think about
the good that you've
done throughout your life, and
the positive impact that you've
had on others, and
times you're proud of.
And you make this a regular
part of your routine.
You don't dwell on any
mistakes you've made,
or any traits you don't
like about yourself.
This is your time to focus
on the positive impacts,
your positive traits.
You remind yourself of
at least one good thing
you've done that
day, no matter how
small, whether it's
an achievement,
or a smile you gave someone, or
a thank you, which made someone
smile.
You allow these small
and large gestures
to grow your self-esteem and
self-assurance every day.
Your confidence and
self-esteem grows
stronger each and every day.
Let it be part of your
routine to tell yourself
what you're proud of.
Remind yourself of the
positive impacts you're making,
of your achievements,
no matter how small.
It's now part of
your daily routine.
Whether it's at
the end of the day,
or the first thing
in the morning,
remind yourself of one small
thing, no matter how small,
how large.
And allow that
self-esteem to grow now.
No dwelling on negativity here.
This is your time to
work on your self-esteem.
You can walk around
with your head held
high, confident and proud
of the fact that you're
kind and loving, and that you're
an understanding person who
has a lot to offer.
And if other people haven't
recognized that yet,
they will soon.
And you know that if you don't
have self-esteem yourself
and respect for yourself,
it's difficult for others
to find that in you.
So from now on, allow
that self-esteem
to grow, and see the changes
taking place around you.
You can feel proud and
confident about yourself.
With your new
self-confidence, you
can be more assertive and more
sure of yourself, more willing
to create, and to
achieve your goals.
And with each and every goal you
achieve, no matter how small,
allow your confidence to grow.
Allow your self-esteem to grow.
You stop any negative inner
thinking, for this is harmful,
and you stop it from now on.
Your inner monologue is
filled with positivity.
You remind yourself of
your goals, your impact,
and allow that confidence to
grow and to show to others.
And maybe you now feel more
confident to approach others,
and to initiate a conversation,
to have the confidence
to make your own suggestions,
to make up your own mind,
and to stand by what you think.
And others will respect
you for this hugely.
And you're feeling so
much more self-assured.
You have the confidence
to ask more questions.
And your knowledge
increases, giving you
more confidence still.
You're feeling happy and
content with yourself.
And you therefore have
no need to judge others.
And if others judge you,
you feel compassion,
because they don't have the
same confidence in themselves
that you have in yourself.
From now on you are a new
person, a stronger character
with a determined fight, filled
with courage and determination.
And your confidence grows
more and more every day.
You lift your head up.
You place your shoulders back.
And you face the world
with gusto and confidence
as you know that you
now have the strength
and courage within you that you
have been lacking in the past.
And you know that the more
you listen to this mind talk,
the more you'll see
that self-esteem grow.
The more it grows,
the more it will
show in your body language,
and the more others
will be drawn to.
And you enjoy those changes.
And in turn, your
confidence grows again.
These hypnotic
suggestions are now
embedded in your
subconscious mind
and will get more
and more powerful
as the days and weeks go by.
And in a moment, I'm going
to count up from 1 to 5
to awaken you.
And at the count of 5, you'll
be wide awake, fully refreshed,
alert, and feeling
fantastic, bringing back
with you all the
wonderful new feelings.
Coming back now.
So 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5.
Eyes open when you're ready.